---
layout: slide
categories: SlideShow
---

<div class="panel slide-content">
<div class="panel-body">

</div>
</div>
<div class="panel notes">
<div class="panel-body marked">

The user shouldn't feel their very expensive device is struggling to display a simple a web page.

Goal framerate of 60fps, which gives us 16ms to render a single frame.

When the frame takes longer to layout and render than 16ms that is jank.

It looks like a stuttery discontinuity in the animation.

Jank shows up in the timeline as very tall bars

It's been shown that 60fps with occasional hiccoups feels much slower than a continuous 30fps.

Long frames caused by too much blocking activity in the main thread.

Can be an intense cpu bound operation or blocking IO (localstorage, sync ajax)

However most commonly on a typical webpage slowness is caused by the layouts and paints used to render the page.

A very simple view of the render pipeline is.

 * Measure Element's position and size in the _Layout_ step.
 * Certain elements are rendered into bitmaps in memory in the _paint_ step
 * The graphics card then draws these bitmaps to the screen in the _composite_ step

🐢 Layout is slowest.

* Layout - browser calculates the positions and sizes of all the elements in the page.
* Making a small DOM change could potentially invalidate the entire DOM tree
* An invalidated DOM is recalculated when each frame is rendered. 
* it is also recalculated whenver layout properties are read
* So layout may be recalculated many times in a single frame.


🐢 An element needs to be repainted when it's appearance changes such as font-family or background colour.
If an element's layout changes its also needs to be repainted.

🐰 Composite is very fast. Composite only involves the graphics card rerendering from bitmaps calculated in paint and stored in memory: it is performed when the page is being drawn to the screen. It is triggered by gfx card-only operations such as transform, clipping and opacity. 

<a href="http://csstriggers.com/" target="_blank">CSS triggers</a> is a great resource for discovering how properties trigger each of these operations.

One should try to touch layout properties rarely but can be pretty free with animating compositing properties.

</div>
</div>
