---
layout: slide
categories: SlideShow
---

<div class="panel slide-content">
	<div class="panel-body marked">
	</div>
</div>
<div class="panel notes">
	<div class="panel-heading">Notes</div>
	<div class="panel-body marked">
	Were going to start off with a single point.

	A Vertex.

	It is defined in 3D cartesian coordinates, with xy being the screen plane and the z direction being into the screen

	3 vertices Of These and we get a face.

	Notice how the face only has one side this known as backface culling

	Faces are only rendered from the front

	The front is dependent on the order of the vertices

	From the front the order should be counter clockwise.

	If you put enough faces together ou have a model.

	Here I have drawn in green the direction of each face point in

	This is known as the normal it is used for working out how the face is rendered.

	It is important that they all point outside.

	Otherwise you will have holes in the model

	A Mesh is a combination of Geometry and a Material

	Materials are a description of how the graphics card should draw it to the screen.

	They can be simple,

	They can be complex

	And take into account the lights in your scene


	Performance.

	The amount of lights and geometry in a scene does affect the difficulty of rendering it.

	So we normally try to keep the numbers low and hide what is far away behind fog.

	Lighting can be precalculated and baked onto textures

	Sprites, are images which always face the camera

	They can be used to great affect since they are very easy to render.

	To build a scene one can use many tools,

	Maya, Blender

	online Clara.io

	I have been using Blender recently because Maya is very expensive.

	</div>
</div>
