---
layout: slide
categories: SlideShow
---

<div class="panel slide-content">
<div class="panel-body marked">

## https://googlechrome.github.io/samples/service-worker/post-message/
<div class="small-text flex">
{% highlight js %}

function workerMessage(message) {

	// This wraps the message posting/response in a promise, which will resolve if the response doesn't
	// contain an error, and reject with the error if it does. If you'd prefer, it's possible to call
	// controller.postMessage() and set up the onmessage handler independently of a promise, but this is
	// a convenient wrapper.
	return new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
		const messageChannel = new MessageChannel();
		messageChannel.port1.onmessage = function(event) {
			if (event.data.error) {
				messageChannel.port1.onmessage = undefined;
				reject(event.data.error);
			} else {
				messageChannel.port1.onmessage = undefined;
				resolve(event.data);
			}
		};

		// This sends the message data as well as transferring messageChannel.port2 to the service worker.
		// The service worker can then use the transferred port to reply via postMessage(), which
		// will in turn trigger the onmessage handler on messageChannel.port1.
		// See https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/workers.html#dom-worker-postmessage
		myWorker.postMessage(message, [messageChannel.port2]);
	});
}

workerMessage({
	action: 'doThing',
	myVar: 4
})
.then(data => {
	console.log(data.response);
});

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight js %}

// Recieve messages from the client and reply back onthe same port
self.addEventListener('message', function(event) {
		Promise.resolve()
		.then(function () {

			switch(event.data.action) {

				case 'doThing':
					event.data.result = expensiveThing();

				default:
					throw Error('Invalid Action');
			}
		})
		.then(function () {
			event.data.success = true;
		}, function (err) {
			console.error(err);
			event.data.success = false;
			if (err) {
				event.data.message = err.message ? err.message : err;
			}
		})
		.then(function () {
			event.ports[0].postMessage(event.data);
		});
});

{% endhighlight %}
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="panel notes">
<div class="panel-body marked">
# Message Channel API

Interfacing with workers is usually quite a bellyache with the postMessage API.

The MessageChannel API which recently gained support across all platforms. Allows us to create a nice pattern for sending messages to workers.

This is the important bit, the interface once can make is very simple and promise based much like the fetch API. Greatly increasing the ease of working with workers.
</div>
</div>
