---
layout: slide
categories: SlideShow
---

<div class="panel slide-content">
<div class="panel-body flex" style="align-items: center;">

</div>
</div>
<div class="panel notes">
<div class="panel-body marked">

# WebGL Shaders

In WebGL to produce special effects really performantly shaders can be used.

Shaders are scripts which get compiled when instantiated (this can be slow).

They can process huge amounts of data very quickly on your computers graphics card.

This has the advantage of being off the main thread and being run on your computers graphics hardware.

Graphics cards are very powerful and specialise in vector maths can process huge amounts of data very quickly.

They can process many thousands of points in a few milliseconds.

If working with WebGL and are animating a fixed topology e.g. 3D graphs and data visualisations, fixed geometry models. Tranform eacho point in the Shader rather than setting the geometry using the cpu, you will get very good performance.

In this demo I send sound data from the microphone to the Shader.

The shader then processes this data to work out how it should effect each point on the model.

There are over 4000 vertices and it does not struggle even on a lower end phone.

***Change slide***

In my early prototype I used the cpu for this.
It got very hot and this is a google cardboard demo.
I thought it was important to set fire to the cardboard headset with the mobile's cpu. (Joke)

That's not the kind of face meltingly awesome VR one should strive for.

## Super crazy (don't do this),

If you would like to process HUGE datasets with 100s of thousands of data points.

Your complex operation one can code your complex operation into a shader.

Then the data can be entered in much like I did with the bunny demo.

But instead of rendering an awesome demo.

One can draw the values out as pixels in the frame buffer.

You can look at the colour of each pixel to extract your data from Red Blue Green information.

Allowing you to use the power of your graphics card for data processing.

Kind of like NVIDIA CUDA.

But seriously don't do this. If you do I want to see it. 

</div>
</div>
